# Related Projects

## Check

The Check project provides actors working with digital media to coordinate the
process of verifying content distributed in social media applications. The
coordination is based on a structured procedure by breaking down the action into
its individual steps. Each particular step is linked to a set of specific key
questions that are answered by the responsible team member who has the
respective competence. This breakdown of the task leads to efficient processing
of the work packages and produces results in a consistently high quality in
which different perspectives are considered. Due to the precise structure, it is
possible to practice the main points of the respective competence in a
simplified manner in the form of targeted training units.

### Time frame of content verification

At the beginning of October 2017, we established a dialog with Meedan, with whom
we will seek cooperation during the course of the project. The vendor stated
that in real experiments but also in existing newsrooms using the tool in
production, a response of only a few minutes (<10) is achieved. This statement
is only valid if each of the relevant competencies actively participates at the
time of processing.

### Comparison to our project

A superficial similarity between Project Check and our project can be seen. The
similarity ends as soon as the target group is considered. Project Check targets
stakeholders of newsrooms.

## Coral / Talk

The Coral / Talk project's primary message is that online comments are not
working as they should - "Online comments are broken". In summary, the project
is rethinking how

- the moderation,
- the presentation of comments and
- the function of the conversation can be done to create safer and smarter forms
  of discussion and interaction. The project Coral / Talk referred to commenting
  systems, which are used in newsrooms. In detail, the design and function will
  be improved to promote better linkage with the content generated by the
  journalistic mode of operation. Future systems will need to improve
  participants' behavior and interaction in the comment section and allow
  moderation to detect and remove disruptive comments easily.

## Relevance to misinformation detection.

In our project, we identified a similar problem in that commenting systems in
digital environments, particularly social media applications, did not
sufficiently support the participant in forming opinions due to consumer
behavior. Similar to the Check project listed earlier, the commonality ends as
soon as the target group is considered. The Coral / Talk project targets
publishers of all sizes who host and manage commenting systems on their own
websites.

# Hypothesis

The Hypothesis Project is a new attempt to implement an old idea. A conversation
layer across the web that works everywhere without requiring implementation by a
child site. Using annotation, we enable the inclusion of sentence-level notes or
critiques on news stories, blogs, scholarly articles, books, terms of service,
ballot initiatives, laws, and more.

## Relevance to misinformation detection.

It does not meet the project's primary objective, although tagging of arbitrary
content is done by stapling context-relevant content to it.

# INJECT

Inject is developing a digital creative tool that enables journalists (and
potential audiences in other fields) to discover new angles on statements or
stories within published content. A key aspect is to produce creative and
original articles even under the increasing time pressure felt in many newsrooms
today.

## Relevance to misinformation detection.

Detecting or recognizing critical content, including debunking misinformation,
is not the primary objective of the project.
