# Attack vectors

## Vulnerability of digital systems

The gears of the 21st century are digital. Practically every area of life is
accompanied by digital services, whether we are aware of it or not. Guaranteeing
the proper functioning of digital components and infrastructures is a major
challenge. Digital systems, regardless of the type of application and degree of
utilization, are interesting targets for a large number of actors.

## Attacking targets

Essential criteria are whether a system is subject to a high or rather low
attack rate.

1. Nature and extent of the profit achieved by a successful attack
2. Maximum possible number of participants that can be affected by a successful
   attack.

## Malicious business models

Digital services designed to interact with the social fabric promise
participants a simplified exchange of information and continuous interaction.

The business models cast in such technologies have an extremely widespread
effect and capture the majority of all people who use a digital device. Relevant
business models are developed by companies, which quantify people and their
surrounding social structure more and more precisely.

By using such services, the participant hands over practically the whole
spectrum of privacy to the operator.

Comparing the actions of a criminal attacker, whose goal is the manipulation of
a digital system, with the actions of a digital corporation and the business
models applied, it is almost impossible to differentiate between the two
groupings.

An essential element that has long been used by attackers can be summarised
under the term social engineering.

The attacker does not only use a technical weak point of an existing system but
also pretends to have an identity in order to gain secret information for the
access to the system.

The strategy for monetisation formulated in a business model to implement the
use of advertisement content uses similar methods used by attackers in the field
of social engineering. The objective is to allocate a clear profile to a user in
order to supply the user with targeted advertising content in a follow-up
process.

Once in this vicious circle, there is no turning back.

## Why a neutralizing effect of (digital) technology is necessary, exemplified by

### Resume - Sean Parker, Co-Founder of Facebook

In order to respect the relevance of this problem, which can be described as
"considerable", a short summary is given. In a recent statement, Sean Parker,
co-founder of Facebook, has published the following statement.

At Facebook, the thinking has always been how to get people to devote as much
time and attention as possible to the website.

### Behavioural change due to the regular dopamine boost

This means we have to give people a little dopamine boost every now and then;
this happens when someone likes things from you or comments on a photo.

It's a feedback loop based on people's desire for social acknowledgement.

(...) We have exploited a weak spot in human psychology.

The creators, me and Mark (Zuckerberg) and Kevin Systrom (Instagram) knew that.
And we did it anyway." In the early years, it was not yet foreseeable how big
the influence of a network of two billion people would be on society. Parker
assumes that Facebook nowadays influences the relationships between society and
people. **To the negative**. At this point a comment on the opinion is omitted.
Parker's statement should be both proven and self-explanatory due to his role
and experience with the world's largest social media provider, Facebook.

## Similarities and requirements

In the field of digital security, a number of technical procedures have been
established which allow the neutralization of malicious software-based
components such as viruses, spyware, malware and ransomware.

The safeguarding of the functional security of digital systems and
infrastructures is not possible without the use of crucial components of digital
security.

In our view, a comparable urgency can be attributed to the thematic field of the
targeted distribution of false information with a significant widespread effect,
since the integrity of human action and decision-making abilities is disturbed.

Despite such similarities and relevance, there are practically no tools that
accompany the user in the consumption of digital content.
